Clubs and Socities
Rotract 

About Us
Rotract Club
              Rotaract club is a part of a global effort to bring peace and international understanding to the world. We are a non-religious, non-political and non-profit organization which are involved in community and international service. They are open to people between the ages of 18 and 30 years old. Rotaract stands for "Rotary in Action" and are supported by Rotary International. Rotaract initially began as a Rotary youth programme in 1968 but has now become an independent group. Rotaract is an international organization with over 7000 clubs worldwide with over 173 000 members. Clubs plan and implement a variety of humanitarian and environmental projects locally or internationally based on the interest of members. Rotaract also aims to assist its members with networking, business and leadership to form well rounded individuals for the working world.  Rotaract Club was installed in Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology in 2006.

Events


EVENTS ORGANISED:
2011-2012
	Sl. No 	Name of the Event 	Date
	1	Blood Donation Camp 28.09.2011
2012-2013

	Sl. No Name of the Event        Date
          1 Dengue Awareness Programme 01.11.2012
	  2 Electoral Roll Campaign    05.01.2013
2013-2014

	Sl. No Name of the Event  Date
          1 Tree Plantation           05.01.2013
          2 Fire and Safety Training Programme 10.12.2013
          3 Rotaract Installation Programme 19.03.2014

ACTION PLAN FOR 2014-15
 
1. Medical Camp
2. International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking- June 26, 2014.
3. World Metal Health Day-October 10, 2014.
4. Self –Injury Awareness Day-November 30, 2014



National Service Scheme

ABOUT THE NSS:

        The National Service Scheme is primarily stands for channalising the students youth for building the nation. The youth in all ages has been in the vanguard of progress and social change, thirst for freedom, impatience for quickerpace of progress and a passion for innovation, coupled with idealism and creative fervour, saw the youth in the forefront of the freedom struggle in our own land. If our youth was inspired by the call of the Father of the Nation in the first half of this century, the youth of today faces the challenge of economic development and technological progress with social justice.

        Ever since independence there has been growing awareness of the desirability of involving students in National Service. The first Education Commission (1950) recommended the introduction of national service by students on a voluntary basis. Subsequently on the basis of suggestion made by the then Prime Minister pt. Nehru, a committee was appointed under the chairmanship pf Dr. C D Deshmukh to prepare a scheme for compulsory national service by youth in several countries, recommended that national service may be introduced on a voluntary basis. A similar recommendation was made by the Education Commission appointed under the Chairmanship of Dr. D S Kothari.

        In April 1967, the Conference of State Education Ministers recommended that at the University stage, students could be permitted to join the national Cadet Corps which was already in existence on a voluntary basis and an alternative to this could be offered to them in the form of a new programme called the National service Scheme (NSS). Promising sportsmen, however, should be exempted from both and allowed to join another scheme called National Sports Organization (NSO), in view of the need to give priority to the development of sports and athletics.

        The conference of Vice-Chancellors in September 1967 welcomed this recommendation and suggested that a social committee of Vice Chancellors should be sent up to examine this question in detail. The details were soon worked out and the planning Commission sanctioned on outlay of Rs. 5 crore for developing the NSS during the 4th Five Year Plan as a pilot project in selected institution and universities. In pursuance of these recommendations, the Ministry of Education introduced National Service Scheme during 1969-70. The choice of the timing of its introduction was remarkably auspicious as 1969 was the birth centenary year of Mahatma Gandhi, the father of Nation to whom social service was almost a religion.

        The response of students to the scheme has been excellent. Starting with an enrollment of 40,000 students in 1969, the coverage of NSS students has increased every year. Now the strength of NSS is 27% of the total student population in the country.

        The scheme now extends to all the states and universities in the country. Students, teachers, parents, guardians, persons in authority in government, universities and colleges and the people in general now realize the need and significance of NSS. It has aroused among the students and youth an awareness of the realities of life, a better understanding and appreciation of the problems of the people. NSS is, thus a concrete attempt in making education relevant to the needs of the society.


        National Service Scheme is a student – centered programme and it is complementary to education. It is a noble experiment in academic extension. It inculcates the spirit of voluntary work among students and teachers through sustained community interaction. It brings our academic institutions closer to the society. It is a link between the campus and community, the college and village, knowledge and action.  The overall aim of NSS is the Personality Development of students through community service. It gives an extension dimension to Higher Education system and orients the student youth to community service.

        National Service Scheme, popularly known as NSS, was formally launched on 24th September, 1969, the birth centenary of the Father of the Nation. Starting with an enrolment of 40000 students in 37 Universities covering all states, the coverage of NSS students increased to about 26.6 lakhs (2006-07) in 198 Universities, 9117 colleges,1196 Technical Institutions, 7542 Plus Two Schools and 41 Plus Two  Vocational Higher Secondary Directorates. During its 39 years of fruitful existence more than 2.7crore students have so far benefited from this largest student-volunteer ship programme in the world
 


NSS BADGE

       The NSS symbol is embossed on the NSS badge. The NSS volunteers wear it while undertaking any programme of community service. The Konark wheel in the symbol has eight bars which represent the 24 hours of the day. The Red colour in the badge indicates that the NSS volunteers are full of blood. i.e. lively, active energetic and full of high spirit. The Navy Blue colour indicates the cosmos of which the NSS is a tiny part, ready to contribute its share for the welfare of mankind.

 

NSS DAY

       NSS was formally launched on 24th September, 1969, the birth centenary year of the Father of the Nation. 24 September is celebrated every year as NSS Day with appropriate programmes & activities

 

NSS LOGO

       The symbol of the NSS is based on the ‘Rath’wheel of the Konark Sun Temple situated in Orissa. These giant wheels of the Sun Temple portray the cycle of creation, preservation and release, and signify the movement in life across time and space. It stands for community as well as change and implies the continuous striving of National Service Scheme for social transformation & upliftment.

 

NSS MOTTO

       The motto of NSS is ‘NOT Me But You’. This reflects the essence of democratic living and upholds the need for selfless service and appreciation of the other person’s point of view and also to show consideration for fellow human beings.

OBSECTIVE OF NSS

i.   To understand the community in which they work

ii.  To understand themselves in relation to their community

iii. To identify the needs and problems of the community and involve them in problem-solving
 
iv.  To develop among themselves a sense of social and civic responsibility

v.   To utilize their knowledge in finding practical solutions to individual and community problems

vi.  To develop competence required for group-living and sharing of responsibilities

vii. To gain skills in mobilizing community participation

viii.To acquire leadership qualities and democratic attitudes

ix.  To develop capacity to meet emergencies and natural disasters and

x.   To practice national integration and social Harmon.



NSS ACTIVITIES

i) adoption of welfare institutions and helping the inmates and staff by arranging outings, fund collection drives,      reading and writing letters for those who are unable to do so;

(ii) propagation of the message of small family norms, health education, small savings drives etc;

(iii) working for improvement of physical environment;

(iv) programme of non-formal education and general literacy classes;

(v) organisation of economic development activities;

(vi) establishment of hobby centres and

(vii) assisting in the rehabilitation work of the disabled, destitute etc.

(viii) Environment Enrichment and Conservation

(ix) Health, Family Welfare and Nutrition Programme: 

(x) Programmes aimed at creating an awareness for improvement of the status of women:

(xi) Social Service Programmes: 

(xii)  Production Oriented Programmes:  

(xiii) Relief & Rehabilitation work during Natural Calamities:

(Xiv) Education and Recreations:


Contact Us
NSS PROGRAMME OFFICER,
MOUNT ZION COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY,
PUDUKKOTTAI.


Computer Society of India

Computer Society of India Formed in 1965, the CSI has been instrumental in guiding the Indian IT industry down the right path since its formative years. Today, the CSI has 72 chapters all over India, 511 student branches, and more than 100000 members including India's most famous IT industry leaders, brilliant scientists and dedicated academicians.

          The mission of the CSI is to facilitate research, knowledge sharing, learning and career enhancement for all categories of IT professionals, while simultaneously inspiring and nurturing new entrants into the industry and helping them to integrate into the IT community. The CSI is also working closely with other industry associations, government bodies and academia to ensure that the benefits of IT advancement ultimately percolate down to every single citizen of India
Events
ICTACT youth Article contest - 2015

Theme: The Digital World

Date : Submit Before 15 Jan 2015

Ist prize   : 32' LED TV
IInd prize  :Tablet
IIIrd prize :Mobile Phone
IVth prize  :Certificates

For more details

http://ictactyouth.in/YouthArticle/
Computer society of India , IEEE , IEEE professional communication society

Theme: Student Essay contest

Title:

1. ICT for Digital India
2. ICT for Make in India
3. ICT for clean India

Ist prize   : 10000
IInd prize  :  5000
IIIrd prize :  2500
Ten consolation prizes : Amazon gift vocher Rs:1000 each
Cerificates of merit : For 25 shortlisted essay over and the above prize winning essays

For More Details

http://ieeecs-madras.managedbiz.com/pgms/csi-essay/essay-csi-brochure.pdf

Contact us
-------------



Aeronautical Society of India

            Aeronautical Society of India (AeSI) is the principal Society in India serving the professions in areas of aeronautics, aerospace and aviation. Its stated primary purpose is to "advance the sciences, engineering, technology and management of aerospace, aeronautics and aviation and to foster and promote the professionalism of those engaged in these pursuits".

 Contact Us
COORDINATOR
AERONAUTICAL SOCIETY OF INDIA
Mount Zion College of Engineering & Technology,
Lena Vilakku, Pilivalam P.O, Thirumayam Tk.,
Pudukkottai Dt - 622507, Tamil Nadu, India


Alumni Association Club

ABOUT US

ABOUT

            An alumni association is an association of graduates or, more broadly, of former students (alumni) often form groups with alumni from the same organization. Many provide a variety of benefits and services that help alumni maintain connections to their educational institution and fellow graduates, Additionally, such groups often support new alumni, and provide a forum to form new friendships and business relationships with people of similar background.

OBJECTIVES

             To implement an alumni liaison programme that will encourage alumni to identify themselves with the college; to generate and sustain interest and participation in college affairs; to inspire alumni to contribute to the development of the college and the promotion of its good name and reputation, locally and internationally; to build and enhance relationships with alumni.

             To provide a focal point of contact among alumni through the implementation of a programme of reunions, events and functions; through printed and electronic communications; and through the creation of networking opportunities for self- development.

             To establish and maintain an alumni structure that facilitates and enhances the relationship between the college and its alumni. This includes establishing and servicing alumni associations/chapters/clubs and facilitating and arranging meetings.
 
             To support an effective advancement programme through collaboration and cooperation with all entities in the Office of Advancement in the implementation of an alumni programme. To strengthen ties between the college and alumni and encourage them to participate in the various cultural, social and scientific activities.

EVENTS
ALUMNI MEET PROGRAM ORGANISED:

            We conducted the alumni meet on 7th july 2013 at  Gokulam Park ,Ashok Pillar, Chennai .   More than 50 alumni  from all over India participated in that historic  program, our principal Dr.P.Balamurugan delivered the welcome address  and  our Director Prof. Jayson k Jeyabharathan delivered the special address,All the alumni shared their pleasant memories of their student life at Mount Zion, which groomed them to attain such a good position in their career Finally our Registrar Dr.Nixon Azariah delivered the vote of thanks. 

 Contact Us
The Alumni Co-ordinator,

Mount Zion College of Engineering & Technology,

Lena vilakku, Pilivalam (post),

Thirumayam (taluk), Pudukkottai (Dist)

Phone No: 04322308000

Email:Alumni@mountzion.ac.in

Our Works

---------------


YOUTH RED CROSS YRC
  The Indian Red Cross Society is a voluntary humanitarian organization, established by an act of the Indian Legislature in 1920, having on its rolls the states, the union territories, the districts and the sub-district branches. Its activities are being directed forward to the “Prevention of Diseases, Improvement of Health and Mitigation of Suffering”. The Indian Red Cross Society realized the importance of the youth way back in 1925 and established Junior Red Cross (JRC) in schools and Youth Red Cross (YRC) in colleges.

           The Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology established its YRC Local Unit in the academic year of 2004-2005.The Youth Red Cross (YRC) of Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology is a part of the Indian Red Cross Society. It is a voluntary relief movement whose purpose is to protect life, health and to ensure respect for the human life.
EVENTS
---------------

CONTACT US
--------------
OUR WORKS
--------------

RED RIBBON CLUB

ABOUT US
A Red Ribbon Club aims at harnessing the potential of the youth by equipping them with correct information on HIV / AIDS Prevention, Care and Support and Treatment. It also aims in building their capacities as peer educators in spreading messages on positive health behaviour in an enabling environment and increasing voluntary blood donation from among youth. 
Red Ribbon Club was started in Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology in 2004. From its inception, it has been conducting various programmes to promote the objectives of the club thereby developing the social skills of the students.


Events



ACTIVITIES:

Conducting Blood Donation Camp

Conducting AIDS Awareness Programme


EVENTS:

2009-10

Sl. No Name of the Event          	 Date
1   Orientation Programme     		 29.09.2009
2   Blood Donation Camp       	 	30.09.2009
3   AIDS Awareness Panel Discussion 	04.11.2009
4   AIDS Awareness Rally	        01.12.2009
 

2010-11

Sl. No Name of the Event 			Date
1      Orientation Programme  			29.09.2010
2  	AIDS Awareness Cycle Rally		25.11.2010
3  	Blood Donation Camp 			15.03.2011
4 	AIDS Awareness Panel Discussion 	16.03.2011
 

2011-12

Sl. No Name of the Event 	  	 Date
1	Orientation Programme   	17.08.2011
2      AIDS Awareness Panel Discussion  28.02.2012
 
2012-13

Sl. No  Name of the Event 					Date
1 	Orientation Programme 					11.10.2012
2 	Blood Donation Camp 					26.09.2012
3 	PAN Card & Driving License Distribution Programme 	22.10.2012
4 	Best RRC Award 						27.12.2012
5 	AIDS Awareness Panel Discussion 			14.03.2012
 

2013-14

Sl. No Name of the Event 					Date
1 Adolescent Health Awareness Programme 			30.08.2013
2 AIDS Awareness Panel Discussion 				30.01.2014
3 Exposure Visit to ICTC					28.03.2014
 

ACTION PLAN FOR 2014-15:

1. Celebrating Life. (Orientation Programme)

2. AIDS Awareness Panel Discussion.

3. World Mosquito Day (August 20).

4. World AIDS Day Rally( December 1).

5. Blood Donors Day- Blood Donation Camp( June 14).

6. International Vegetarian Day (October 1 ).

7. Exposure visit to ICTC.

8. Competitions-Elocution & Essay Writing on “The Role of Students in AIDS Prevention”.


Contact Us
The Programme Officer,

Red Ribbon Club

Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology

Pudukkottai- 622 507.

Phone: 04322-320801

E-mail:redribbonclub@mzcet.ac.in


Our Works
--------------------


 Institution of Engineers (INDIA)

ABOUT US


            The institution of engineers (India) IEI  is the national organization for engineers in India .  IEI has over 0.5 million members from 15 engineering disciplines  in 99 centers or chapters in India and overseas ;it is the largest multi- disciplinary engineering  professional society in the English –speaking world .its currently head quartered in Kolkata.
Events
------------------
Contact Us
S.RAMAKRISHNANAN
AP / CIVIL – IEI COORDINATOR
Mount Zion College of Engineering & Technology,
Lena Vilakku, Pilivalam P.O, Thirumayam Tk.,
Pudukkottai Dt - 622507, Tamil Nadu, India

Our Works
-----------


 Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers

ABOUT US

          The Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE) is India's leading recognised professional society devoted to the advancement of Science and Technology of Electronics, Telecommunication & IT. Founded in 1953, it serves more than 70,000 members through various centres, whose number is 62, spread all over India and abroad. The Institution provides leadership in Scientific and Technical areas of direct importance to the national development and economy. Government of India has recognised IETE as a Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (SIRO) and also notified as an educational Institution of national eminence. The objectives of IETE focus on advancing electro-technology. The IETE conducts and sponsors technical meetings, conferences, symposia, and exhibitions all over India, publishes technical journals and provides continuing education as well as career advancement opportunities to its members.


EVENTS

INAUGURAL DAY CELEBRATIONS

Inaugural of Institution of Electronics &Telecommunication Engineers Student Forum (ISF)

             Mount Zion College of Engineering &Technology, Pudukottai conducted the Inaugural function of the Institution of Electronics &Telecommunication Engineers Student Forum (ISF) under the auspices of the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering on Monday, the 27th January 2014 at 10.30 a.m. in the college auditorium. Chairman, Mount Zion Educational Institutions Shri.Jayabarathan Chelliah presided over the function and delivered the keynote address.Director, Prof.Jayson K.Jayabarathan and Principal, Dr.P.Balamurugan delivered the special address.Inaugural address was shared by Dr.R.Shantha Selva Kumari, Chairman IETE Sivakasi centre, Mepco Schlenk Engineering College Campus, Sivakasi and Dr.S.Vincent Principal Technical officer ,CECRI,Karaikudi. Dr.R.Shantha Selva Kumari highlighted the benefits of joining IETE and how it is useful to the students.Students were very much motivated by her talk and delivered a lecture on Digital Signal Processing and its applications.Dr.S.Vincent encouraged the students to do innovative research work so that they will be able to contribute significantly for the IETE. He highlighted the Recent Trends in Electronics .Dr.S.Robinson Associate Professor ECE and R&D coordinator introduced the chief guests.Mr.R.Premkumar ISF coordinator welcomed the gathering.Mrs.A.Taksala Deva Priya, proposed the vote of thanks.

OUR WORKS

------------------------

Research and Development Cell

ABOUT US
Research and Development Cell in Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology aims to cultivate research culture in the College by promoting research in newly emerging and challenging areas of Engineering, Technology, Science and Humanities. It encourages the students and faculty to undertake the research in newly emerging frontier areas of Engineering, Technology, Science and Humanities including multidisciplinary fields. This enhances the general research capability of budding technocrats by way of participating in conferences, seminars, workshops, project competition, etc....

EVENTS


1st
April 2013

National Conference on Recent Trends in Engineering and Technology-2013 (NCRTET-2013)

Research and development (R&D) Cell conducted National Conference on Recent Trends in Engineering and Technology (NCRTET-2013) on 1st April 2013. Mr. Jayabarathan Chellian, Chairman presided over the function. Totally, 143 papers were submitted in all the field of engineering and technology from 27 different colleges by UG/PG students, research scholars and faculty members. Out of 143 papers around 97 papers had been selected for oral presentation. »

15th
November 2012

One Day Seminar on Research Methodology

Research and development (R&D) Cell conducted Seminar on Research Methodology on 15th November 2013. The Chief Guest Dr. G. Chandramohan Associate Professor and Research Advisor, Department of Chemistry, AVVM Sri Pushpam College, Thanjavur graced the occasion with his valuable presence and delivered the lecture on Research Methodology.»

14th
November 2012

Conference on Emerging Trends in Science Engineering and Technology-2012 (CETSET-2012)

Research and development (R&D) Cell conducted Intra College Conference on Emerging Trends in Science, Engineering and Technology (CETSET-2012) on 14th November 2012. Mr. Jayabarathan Chellian, Chairman presided over the function. Totally, 46 papers were presented by our faculty members. 

Contact Us
Research and Development cell, 
Mount Zion college of Engineering & Technology, 
Lena Vilakku, 
Pilivalam PO, 
Pudukkottai, 
Tamil Nadu, 
India. Pin - 622 507


Our Works
Research & Development cell

R & D Initiatives:

Initiatives for Students

Students are encouraged to participate in workshops, seminars, paper presentation and project competitions.
They are motivated to undertake both in house and industry based projects.
Guest lectures, workshops and industrial visits are regularly arranged to focus on thrust areas.
Financial assistance is provided for publishing and presenting the paper in a peer reviewed journal and conference.
Financial assistance for developing the experimental setups for the innovative/socially relevant project work.
Students are encouraged to submit research proposal under student project scheme to external funding agencies on the topic of their project work.

Initiatives for Faculty

Financial assistance in terms of registration fees, TA/DA, etc for participation in National & International conferences (India and Abroad), Workshops, Seminars, FDP, etc.
Faculty members are sponsored for pursuing higher studies.
Incentives for publishing papers in refereed impact factor journals.
Incentive to faculty for receiving research grant from external funding agencies of Government of India.
Faculty members are encouraged for interacting with the outside world such as chairing technical session/invitation as keynote speaker in National/International Conferences, Seminar, Workshop and Guest lecture
Management extends full supports for the fund required for procuring facilities to do the research.

Academic Research:

Research Facilities

Details of Faculty Pursuing Ph.D.
Details of Paper Published by Faculty in national/international journals
Details of Paper Presented by Faculty in national/international Conferences

Research Activities in Departments:

Funded Projects
Students Projects
Conferences/Seminars/Workshops/FDP/Summer/Winter Schools Organized

Workshop/Conference/ Seminar/FDP Organized:

R & D Cell organized National Conference on Recent Trends in Engineering and Technology (NCRTET-2013) 2013 on 1st April 2013.
R & D Cell organized one day workshop on research methodology on 15th November 2012.
R & D Cell organized Intra College Conference on Emerging Trends in Science, Engineering and Technology (CETSET-2013) 2012 on 14th November 2012.

Funding Received:

Dr.P.Balamurugan, Principal, Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology received Rs. 50,000/- from Ministry New & Renewable Energy (MNRE) to conduct three days National level workshop on “Recent Trends in Hybrid and Renewable Energy Systems” during May 2013
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology received Rs.1,49,830/- from Ministry New & Renewable Energy(MNRE) to conduct Ten days ISTE Workshop on “Engineering Thermodynamics” during Dec 2012.
Department of Computer Science Engineering, Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology received Rs.1,98,700/- from Ministry New & Renewable Energy(MNRE)to conduct ten days ISTE Workshop on “Database Management System” during APR2013
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology received Rs.1,22,200/- from Ministry New & Renewable Energy(MNRE)to conduct ten days Workshop on “Analog Electronics” during MAY2013.
BE students (CSE) received Rs. 10,000/- from Tamilnadu State Council for Science and Technology for their project titled “Design of a robotic hand for paralyzed using a brain computer interface” during May 2013


Funding Proposals submitted:

SNo	Programme			Title							Agency
1	Faculty Development Programme	Ad hoc networks Design, Application and Models		AICTE
2	Modrobs				Networks Lab						AICTE
3	Seminar				Cryptology Progress and Challenges			AICTE
4	Faculty Development Programme	Recent trends in optical communication and networks	AICTE
5	Seminar				Research Challenges in Ultra Wide band Technology	AICTE
6	Faculty Development Programme	Recent trends in design and applications of smart grid hybrid systems	AICTE
7	Modrobs				Strength of materials					AICTE
8	Seminar				“Role of Civil Engineering in Coastal Zone Management”	MOES
9	Conference			Costal Management					MOES
10	Seminar				Recent trends in microwave and optical communication	UGC
11	Seminar				Research Methodology					UGC
12	Seminar				Recent advancement in wireless technologies		TNSCST
13	Seminar				Research Methodology					TNSCST
14	Seminar				Recent trends in microwave and optical communication	TNSCST
15	Seminar				Entrepreneurship development Programme			DST


 ISTE

ABOUT US

            The Indian Society for Technical Education is a national, professional, non-profit Society registered under the Indian Societies Registration Act of 1860. First started in 1941 as the Association of Principals of Technical Institutions (APTI), it was converted into "Indian Society for Technical Education" in 1968 with a view to enlarge its activities to advance the cause of Technology education. The major objective of the ISTE is to assist and contribute in the production and development of top quality professional engineers and technicians needed by the industries and other organizations. Being the only national organization of educators in the field of Engineering and Technology, ISTE effectively contributes in various missions of the Union Government. The Ministry of Human Resource Development, CTE/DST/MIT/State Govts. are well associated with the ISTE for programmes relating to technical education.
EVENTS
---------------

 Contact Us
ARUN KUMAR. R

Asst.Prof. / EEE – EEE STUDENT BRANCH COORDINATOR

Mount Zion College of Engineering & Technology,

Lena Vilakku, Pilivalam P.O, Thirumayam Tk.,

Pudukkottai Dt - 622507, Tamil Nadu, India




Internal Quality Assurance Cell - About Us


BENEFITS:

IQAC facilitates and contributes:

1. To a heightened level of clarity and focus in institutional functioning towards quality enhancement and facilitate internalisation of the quality culture. 
2. To the enhancement and integration among the various activities of the institution and to institutionalise many good practices. 
3. To provide a sound basis for decision making to improve institutional functioning. 
4. To act as a change agent in the institution. 
5. To the betterment of internal communication.

 Events
---------------

Contact Us
The Coordinator, IQAC Cell

Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology

Lena Vilakku, Pilivalam PO, Thirumayam Taluk,

Pudukottai District – 622507

Phone: 04322-320801


Our Works
-----------


GREEN CAMPUS INITIATIVE CELL
 


ABOUT US:

            The MZCET has undertaken a “Green Campus Initiative Cell” seeking to take a holistic approach to campus sustainability. The initiative focuses on campus energy, materials, land, and water use applying methods that promote ecological literacy, sustainability education and involve the broader community outside of the college. The GCIC is fresh, dynamic and action-based. We aim to bring about lasting change and to make MZCET a more environment-friendly institution. Aiming to improve the environmental awareness of students, and taking greening to living, the GCI has planned to conduct the events and awareness programs.

            The CGIC creates awareness among the students and staff about harmful effects of global warming and environmental pollution. The vision of the GCII is to shift MZCET towards a carbon neutral, environmentally conscious institution through the volunteer efforts of staff and students. As a result, students, faculty, staff, and citizens who work, learn, and live in and around our campus can gain a new dimension to their learning experience, and an increased appreciation of the natural world.

OBJECTIVES:

v  To raise awareness among students and public about the issues concerning energy and the environment.
v  Creating a dynamic Campus atmosphere which is open to diversity and in which the students participate in social, cultural and sports activities.
v  To recommend cost effective schemes for achieving energy saving and cost saving.
v  To establish an efficient waste and recycling system.
v Green practices in the college campus towards zero carbon.
v  To ensure land use, water management, and the conservation of natural resources.
v  To create awareness about the harmful effects of using conventional sources of energy.
v  To create awareness of impact of pollution on the environment.



TEAM MEMBERS:
Chairperson 		Dr. P.Balamurugan M.E., Ph.D..  Principal, MZCET
Coordinator 		K.Rajkumar 			AP/Mech, MZCET
Committee member 	Mr.Karthick 			AP/Mech, MZCET
Committee member 	Mr.Arunkumar 			AP/EEE, MZCET
Committee member 	Mr.Sivanesan 			AP/Aero, MZCET
Committee member 	Mr.Palaniappan 			AP/ECE, MZCET
Committee member 	Mr.Ranjithkumar 		AP/CSE, MZCET
Committee member 	Mr.S.Ramakrishnan 		AP/Civil, MZCET

ACTIVITIES:


Sl.no	Activities	Participants	Date	Experts
1      
Tree planting in the college campus	
Students and staff
05.11.2013	Director, Academic coordinator,  Principal, Green Campus Initiative Cell
2
Technical Quiz on pollution control	Students	06.02.2014	Green Campus Initiative Cell
3
Plant a tree today	Students and staff	19.03.2014	Director, Academic coordinator,  Principal, Green Campus Initiative Cell
4
Green Campus – Towards Zero Carbon	Students and staff	16.04.2014	Green Campus Initiative Cell



EVENTS:

1.Title of the event is “Plant a tree today”

          “Plant a tree today” program has been conducted on 11.05.13 in our college campus to create awareness among the students and faculty members. More than 100 trees were planted in our college campus on that day. The Director, Academic coordinator, Principal, Staff members, Students of our college took part in the program and planted the trees.

2.Quiz on pollution control

            To create awareness about the impact of harmful emissions from vehicles and industries among the students, a quiz competition on pollution control has been conducted. 

3.Tree planting in the college campus

            To create interest in environmental aspects among students “Naming the trees” program has been conducted on 19.03.14 in our college. The trees in the college campus were named during this program.

4.Green Campus

            A survey was conducted in the college campus to find the number of trees and plants in the college campus to find its impact over the environment. From the survey report the college campus consists of nearly 1500 various types of native and endangered trees, 650 small trees, 700 shrubs and plants.

ACTION PLAN:

1.     A One day seminar on the topic “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle”.
2.     Quiz competition and slogan competition.

CONTACT US
------------------
OUR WORK
-------------



CAREER GUIDANCE CELL

ABOUT US

             The career guidance cell provides relevant academic and career information to enable Students to make informed decisions along the way. Our focus is to provide learning/training opportunities in the areas of academic, career and personal/ social development and to prepare students to meet their future challenges.

             The career guidance cell of the college is constituted with a coordinator and   faculty members of the college to provide necessary guidance and information to the students in shaping the future career. The team keeps up to date with employment trends and options to ensure quality advice to students.

              Eminent resource persons from various sectors and esteemed institutions are invited for providing motivation to the students..

Programme Organized
		
Sno 		Activity    		 	Participants 					Date			Experts
1 		Orientation 			Third year students from all the departments 	August 14th 2012   Mrs.Savitri Sivakumar, Director of U2CAN, Trichy plus branch, Trichy
2 		Career awareness programme 	Second year students from all the departments September 25th 2012 Career guidance cell coordinator
3 		Motivation programme 		Final year students from all the departments  October 9th 2012 	Career guidance cell coordinator
4 		Career awareness programme 	First year students from all the departments December 4th 2012 Career guidance cell coordinator
5 		Career awareness programme 	For second year students 			Feb 14th 2013 	Mrs.Savitri Sivakumar, Director of U2CAN, Trichy plus branch, Trichy
6 		career Awareness Programme 	III Year students 				17/07/2013 	IAS Academy, Madurai
7 		Motivation Programme 		IV year students 				05/09/2013 	Madhumathi, AP/Mech, MZCET
8 		Career Awareness Programme 	I year students					11/10/2013 	Arun. R.K Senior Executive T.I.M.E.
9 		How to Crack GATE 2014 		IV Year Students 				21/1/2014      Mr.Mahesh from Gate forum ,Trichy
 

 CONTACT US
-------------


IIT BOMBAY REMOTE CENTRE 



National Mission on Education Through ICT
Empowerment of Students and Teachers
through Synchronous & Asynchronous Instruction

       Every Indian learner deserves to be given a chance to have the highest quality education. Scarcity of trained teachers critically hinders this national desire. This project envisions empowerment of teachers, through workshops conducted for thousands of teachers at one go, using a unique blend of technology and an innovative pedagogy. Thousands have experienced the effectiveness of this approach, and of the resulting open source contents.


      New technologies and tools are developed to further enhance the educational experience. Application development and content porting to Aakash tablet is being ramped up.

      Work is done in synergetic collaboration with sister projects at IIT Bombay, such as eLearning Animation, Spoken tutorials, Virtual labs, and FOSSEE.

Sl.No 		Name of The Workshops 						Date

1. 		2 days ISTE Workshop on Aakash for Education			10th & 11th November 2012
2. 		2-WEEK ISTE WORKSHOP on Engineering Thermodynamics		11th to 21st December 2012

3. 		2-DAY ISTE WORKSHOP ON RESEARCH METHODS IN EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY	2nd & 9th February 2013

4. 		Aakash Android Application Programming Workshop for Students		February 23rd, 2013 to March 3rd, 2013

5. 	TWO-WEEK ISTE WORKSHOP ON DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (Main Workshop)		21st to 31st May 2013

6. 	Half Day ISTE Workshop on Green Building Awareness			24th August 2013
7. 	TWO-WEEK ISTE WORKSHOP on Engineering Mechanics				26th to 6th December 2013
8. 	Two Week ISTE Main Workshop on Computer Programming			20th May 2014 to  21st June 2014
9. 	Two Week ISTE Main Workshop on Computer Networking			30th June 2014 to 5th July 2014
10. 	Two Week ISTE Main Workshop on Cyber Security				10th to 20th July 2014


Entrepreneurship Development Cell 
           The Entrepreneurship Development Cell (EDC), of Mount Zion College of Engineering and Technology was established on its own initiative in the year of 2012 with a vision for fostering innovation and promoting entrepreneurial spirit among the budding Engineering students. The Entrepreneurship Development Cell provides a platform for the budding entrepreneurs to learn about entrepreneurship and enhance their skills. The academic institutions play a vital role in the economic development of a country as they produce the right manpower needed by different sectors of the society. The focus is on urging the students to think out of the box and it strongly believes in the concept of Live the Dream and also hope to spread this message among the student community to make them realize that there is Life beyond job seeking. In the present economic scenario we are functioning with this slogan Dont be a job seeker, try to be a job provider.

PROGRAMMES ORGANIZED

DATE 			ACTIVITIES 							CHIEF GUEST

14.08.2013 		Idea Competition “The Idea Hunter’13 ” 				Ms.A.P.Aruna, Chief Executive Officer, Periyar Technology Business Incubator (Periyar TBI), Periyar Maniammai University, Vallam, Thanjavur,

05.07.2013 		Inauguration of Students Cooperative stores. 			Mr. Jayabarathan Chelliah, M.A. (U.S.A), B.Ed. Chairman, Mount Zion Educational Trust, Pudukkottai.

											Prof. Jayson K Jayabarathan, M.Tech.Ph.D* Director,
											Mount Zion College of Engineering & Technology.

28.01.2013 		“I AM AN ENTREPRENEUR” An Entrepreneurship Awareness Programme. Ms.A.P.Aruna, Chief Executive Officer, 
											Periyar Technology Business Incubator 
											(Periyar TBI), Periyar Maniammai University, Vallam, Thanjavur,

28.07.2010 to 
30.07.2010 	 	ENTREPRENEURSHIP AWARENESS CAMP sponsored by Department of science and technology, Govt. of India. MR.R.PRITHVIRAJ ,
															   President (SSI Association), Pudukkottai.

																Resource Persons:
																Mr.Lakshmanan, JC Trainer
																Mr.SusilKumar,Manager TIIC
																Mr.RajKumar, Corporation Bank

																Mr.Palaniappan, Joint Secretary, SSI Association

10.08.2010 		MY IDEA PROGRAMME Sponsored by PSG-STEP, Coimbatore & VILLGRO. Mr. Jayabarathan Chelliah, M.A. (U.S.A), B.Ed

											Mount Zion Educational Trust, Pudukkottai.

17.07.2012 		Inauguration of Entrepreneurship Development Cell and Industry –Institute Interaction Cell. Mr.SARATHBABU ,

														    CEO-Foodking Catering services, Chennai

Contact Us
The Coordinator, 
Entrepreneurship Development Cell,
Mount Zion college of Engineering & Technology, 
Lena Vilakku, 
Pilivalam PO, 
Pudukkottai, 
Tamil Nadu, 
India. Pin - 622 507. 

Phone : +917373069007
Email : edcell@mountzion.ac.in
Website :betanet.mzcet.in:8080/web/ed 



Our Works
Entrepreneurship Development Functions:

Identifying entrepreneurial opportunities inside the college campus such as project development centers, student’s cooperative stores and business stalls etc.
Organizing the idea hunter and business plan competitions every year.
Encourage the students to participate in competitions and programs related to entrepreneurship development activities.
Conduct programmes to empower women entrepreneurs.
Arranging interactions with Entrepreneurial Development Institutions relating to financial and other assistance.

Energy Audit Cell
ABOUT US:
                 Energy audit cell is one which aims at creating a more secure future from the point of view of energy needs. The members of the cell strive to generate awareness regarding the necessity to shift focus on conservation of energy and the cell has also various programs to create awareness among the students and staff of our college.  The cell tries to make the students and general public aware of the grave present scenario and how wastage of energy should be considered almost a cardinal sin. It seeks to find out methods to reduce the energy consumption. The Cell encourages the use of more ‘Green Energy’ and limit the use of fossil fuels. The cell members create awareness about conducting the energy audit to find wastage of energy and in finding opportunities for energy conservation. The cell also actively participates in research and development programmes to build small scale projects and devices plans on how these projects can be implemented more feasibly on a larger scale. The cell is progressing leaps and bounds in this field and hopes to continue doing so for the years to come.

EVENTS:

1. Slogan competition and poster presentation

            The Slogan competition and poster presentation events on Energy conservation were conducted in the campus on 28.09.12. More than 90 students of all the departments participated in the competition. The best slogan and posters were selected and certificates were given to the students. The director and Principal of our college distributed the prizes to the winners.

2. Implementation of Energy Audit cell recommendations

            The energy audit cell recommended the usage of Energy efficient LED lamps in the college campus. The use of LED lamps in the college instead of Sodium vapour lamps will save considerable power. The management has installed the recommended LED lamps in the college campus. According to the recommendations of EAC the A/C’s of our college were operated at temperature of 260C. The usage of LED lights in the corridor is under progress.

3. Designing of energy efficient Lamps

            As the cost of LED lamps available in the market are very high it is decided to design our own lamps. The most of the LED lamps used in the college campus were designed in our college itself. The staffs and technical assistants are involved in designing those lamps. It also gives good results when comparing to the commercially available LED lamps but at low cost.         

4. Energy Audit in college campus

            Six students of EEE Department along with the energy audit cell members conducted a walk through energy audit in the college. The data about the electrical and electronics appliances used in the college campus is collected, the details of power consumption for the past few months also collected. They covered the whole campus classrooms, office, Labs, Hostel, Mess, and Canteen etc. All the power consuming equipment’s are analysed and the chances for power conservation were identified. The recommendation’s for power conservation was also given. 
 Contact Us
-----------------





